[ APPLAUSE ]
WELL DONE, JONATHAN.
THANK YOU, ADMIRAL.
[ PEOPLE WHISTLING ]
[ SIGHS ]
I'VE BEEN TOLD THAT PEOPLE
ARE CALLING US HEROES.
WHEN IT COMES TO MY CREW...
ANY ARGUMENT FROM ME.
YOU WON'T GET
[ APPLAUSE ]
BUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT...
THAT WE REMEMBER...
WHO AREN'T WITH US.
THE HEROES
WHO DIDN'T MAKE IT BACK.
THE 27 CREWMEN
WITHOUT THEIR SACRIFICE,
I WOULDN'T BE STANDING HERE
RIGHT NOW.
NONE OF US WOULD.
ON BEHALF OF MY ENTIRE CREW
BUT I'M SURE I SPEAK
WHEN I SAY...
IT'S GOOD TO BE HOME.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD ♪
♪ GETTING FROM THERE TO HERE ♪
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME ♪
♪ BUT MY TIME IS FINALLY NEAR ♪
♪ AND I WILL SEE MY DREAM
COME ALIVE AT LAST ♪
♪ I WILL TOUCH THE SKY ♪
♪ AND THEY'RE NOT GONNA
HOLD ME DOWN NO MORE ♪
♪ NO, THEY'RE NOT GONNA
CHANGE MY MIND ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ OF THE HEART ♪
♪ I'M GOING WHERE MY HEART
WILL TAKE ME ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH TO BELIEVE ♪
♪ I CAN DO ANYTHING ♪
♪ I'VE GOT STRENGTH
OF THE SOUL ♪
♪ AND NO ONE'S GONNA BEND
OR BREAK ME ♪
♪ I CAN REACH ANY STAR ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT ♪
♪ FAITH OF THE HEART ♪
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
EXCUSE ME.
SCOTCH.
FOR REGULAR CUSTOMERS.
THE BAR'S RESERVED
HAVE TO SIT AT A TABLE.
GALACTIC HEROES
I HEARD ABOUT YOUR PROMOTION.
CONGRATULATIONS, CAPTAIN.
THANKS.
CHEERS.
SO, WHAT WAS IT LIKE
IN THE EXPANSE?
YOU'LL BE AT THE DEBRIEFING
TOMORROW, WON'T YOU?
MM-HMM.
TO SPOIL ANY SURPRISES.
I WOULDN'T WANT
MORE IMPORTANT QUESTIONS.
BESIDES, I'VE GOT
SEEN ANY GOOD MOVIES
WHILE I WAS GONE?
ANOTHER WORLD WAR III EPIC.
[ CHUCKLES ]
IT SWEPT ALL THE AWARDS.
BUT YOU HAVEN'T MISSED MUCH.
EARTH'S BEEN HOLDING ITS BREATH
FOR THE PAST YEAR
WONDERING IF THE XINDI
WERE GONNA COME BACK
AND FINISH THE JOB.
THERE'VE BEEN MORE WEDDINGS
ON THE BRIGHT SIDE,
AND BIRTHS THAN EVER BEFORE.
I DON'T SEE A RING.
I'M MARRIED TO STARFLEET...
JUST LIKE YOU.
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
COME IN.
YOU'RE TAKING ENOUGH CLOTHES
WELL, IT LOOKS LIKE
TO LAST A YEAR.
YOU WANTED SOMETHING?
I WANTED TO STAY ABOARD
I TOLD THE CAPTAIN
AND SUPERVISE THE REFIT,
BUT HE SUGGESTED
I TAKE A BREAK.
MORE LIKE AN ORDER, ACTUALLY.
I'M NOT SURE WHERE TO GO.
PROBLEM IS,
LIZZIE'S GONE. MY HOMETOWN
DOESN'T EXIST ANYMORE.
[ SIGHS ]
GUESS THIS IS MY HOME NOW.
YOU COULD COME WITH ME.
TO VULCAN?
THE TRANSPORT LEAVES
AT 1100 HOURS.
WHERE WOULD I STAY?
THERE'S A GUEST ROOM
IN MY MOTHER'S HOME.
OH, YOUR MOM'S HOUSE, HUH?
WHAT DOES SHE KNOW ABOUT ME?
WHAT, UH --
MM. ABOUT US?
I'VE NEVER MENTIONED YOU.
SO, YOU'D INTRODUCE ME AS...
COMMANDER CHARLES TUCKER III.
THAT YOU DON'T GET TO SEE
YOU'VE TOLD THE CAPTAIN
AS MANY ALIEN CULTURES
AS YOU'D LIKE.
YOU'VE NEVER BEEN TO VULCAN.
1100 HOURS, HUH?
I'D BETTER START PACKING.
THESE STATIONS DIRECTLY
WE'VE TIED
INTO THE PRIMARY
E.P.S. JUNCTION.
I HOPE YOU DON'T MIND IF I STEAL
SOME OF THESE IMPROVEMENTS.
[ CHUCKLES ]
I WON'T SAY ANYTHING,
IF YOU DO ME A SMALL FAVOR.
MY SENIOR OFFICER CANDIDATES.
I'D LIKE TO GET YOUR OPINION.
WITH A FEW OF THEM.
YOU'VE SERVED
TO TALK TO SOMEONE
YOU MIGHT WANT
ABOUT INSTALLING
A LUMBAR SUPPORT.
A LOT OF HOURS IN THAT CHAIR.
YOU'RE GONNA SPEND
HULL POLARIZATION BY 12%.
WE'VE IMPROVED
WE'LL BE ABLE TO HANG IN A
FIRE-FIGHT A LITTLE LONGER.
VENTRAL AND DORSAL
TORPEDO LAUNCHERS,
PULSED PHASE CANNONS.
UPGRADES YOU RECOMMENDED.
WHAT IS IT?
I HAD AN ARGUMENT ONCE
WITH CAPTAIN JEFFERIES.
HE WAS ONE OF THE DESIGNERS
OF THE N.X.-CLASS.
I'M AWARE OF THAT.
I TOLD HIM I DIDN'T WANT TO BE
IN COMMAND OF A WARSHIP
TRYING TO MAKE FIRST CONTACT
WITH NEW SPECIES.
[ CHUCKLES ]
JEFFERIES WAS RIGHT.
AND A HELL OF A LOT MORE.
WE NEEDED THOSE WEAPONS
THE ASTEROIDS WERE LOADED
WITH TRELLIUM ORE.
THE FIELD IN ORDER TO MINE IT.
WE THINK THE VULCANS ENTERED
TRELLIUM?
IT'S AN ALLOY THAT PROTECTS
AGAINST SPATIAL ANOMALIES.
SHIPS IN THE EXPANSE USED IT
TO INSULATE THEIR HULLS.
WHEN YOU BOARDED THE SELEYA,
YOUR LOG REFLECTS THAT
A "DELUSIONAL, VIOLENT STATE."
THAT YOU FOUND THE CREW IN
THE MINUTE WE DOCKED.
THEY ATTACKED US
THE TRELLIUM HAD A TOXIC EFFECT
ON THE VULCANS,
DAMAGED THEIR NEURAL PATHWAYS.
TO SUPPRESS THEIR EMOTIONS.
THEY LOST THE ABILITY
ACCORDING TO YOUR LOG,
THE ENTIRE CREW OF THE SELEYA
WAS KILLED
WHEN YOU TRIGGERED
A REACTOR BREACH.
THE BREACH WAS AN ACCIDENT.
YEAH,
TO DISABLE THEIR POWER GRID.
WE WERE TRYING
I CAN DETERMINE,
UH, AS FAR AS
A SINGLE VULCAN CREWMAN.
YOU DIDN'T TRY TO SAVE
THEY WERE TOO FAR GONE.
THERE WAS NO POINT.
MEDICAL OPINION, CAPTAIN?
IS THAT YOUR
PHLOX MADE THAT DETERMINATION.
OUR SPECIALISTS HAVE EXAMINED
THE DATA YOU SENT BACK.
IT'S FAR FROM CERTAIN
THAT THE NEUROLOGICAL DAMAGE
WAS IRREVERSIBLE.
WE COULD DO FOR THEM.
THERE WAS NOTHING
T'POL WAS EXPOSED
TO THE TRELLIUM.
SHE RECOVERED.
I COULDN'T HELP THEM.
TO GET EMOTIONAL, CAPTAIN.
THERE'S NO NEED
YOU SPENT SEVERAL HOURS IN THE
SHIP'S AUXILIARY CONTROL ROOM.
TO ACCESS THE INTERNAL SENSORS
IN THAT TIME, DID YOU TRY
THE COMPUTER DATABASE?
OR DOWNLOAD
-SO, IN EFFECT,
-NO.
HAPPENED ABOARD THE SELEYA.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT REALLY
WHAT THE HELL DOES THAT MEAN?
BECAUSE OF THIS OVERSIGHT,
WE'LL NEVER HAVE A COMPLETE
PICTURE OF THE EVENTS
THE SHIP'S DESTRUCTION.
THAT LED TO
I JUST TOLD YOU EXACTLY WHAT LED
TO THE SHIP'S DESTRUCTION.
CAPTAIN.
I'M NOT GONNA SIT HERE
AND BE ACCUSED
OF MURDERING THOSE PEOPLE.
NO ONE IS ACCUSING YOU
OF ANYTHING, CAPTAIN.
WOULD STILL BE ALIVE
MAYBE THAT CREW
A LITTLE MORE HELPFUL.
IF YOU'D BEEN
I BEG YOUR PARDON?
YOU DID EVERYTHING YOU COULD
TO SABOTAGE OUR MISSION.
FROM THE ANDORIANS
I GOT MORE HELP
FROM THE HIGH COMMAND!
THAN I EVER GOT
THAT'S ENOUGH, CAPTAIN.
A CLOUD OF DUST RIGHT NOW
THIS PLANET WOULD BE
IF WE'D LISTENED TO YOU!
THAT'S ENOUGH!
TAKING HIS SIDE?
HOW CAN YOU BE
TAKING ANYONE'S SIDE.
I AM NOT
YOU WERE OUT OF LINE.
THEY DON'T LIFT A FINGER
TO HELP US,
AND NOW I HAVE TO JUSTIFY MYSELF
TO THAT SON OF A BITCH?
THE DEBRIEFING'S ON HOLD
INDEFINITELY.
I WANT YOU TO TAKE SOME TIME OFF
TO CLEAR YOUR HEAD.
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, ADMIRAL,
I DON'T NEED A VACATION.
THAT'S AN ORDER, CAPTAIN!
IF YOU WOULDN'T MIND.
LIEUTENANT, UM,
[ SIGHS ]
UH...
TRAVELING LIGHT, ARE YOU?
NOT EXACTLY
[ CHUCKLING ]
THANK YOU.
THE COMFORTS OF HOME,
WHY LEAVE
TAKE IT ALL WITH YOU, HMM?
WHEN YOU CAN
OKAY.
[ SIGHS ]
I TRUST YOU'LL BE TAKING
THE PROPER PRECAUTIONS
ON THE SURFACE.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WELL, I'M SURPRISED
YOU HAVEN'T HEARD.
AN ANDORIAN AND TWO RIGELIANS
WERE ATTACKED.
ATTACKED? WHY?
THE XINDI INCIDENT
WELL, APPARENTLY,
A DEGREE OF XENOPHOBIA.
HAS CAUSED
IT'S HARD TO BELIEVE
IN THIS DAY AND AGE.
I'M TOLD THE VULCANS
ARE STAYING BEHIND
THE WALLS OF THEIR COMPOUND.
LET A FEW ISOLATED INCIDENTS
WELL, I'M NOT GOING TO
DISRUPT MY VACATION PLANS,
HMM?
[ GRUNTING ]
I LIVED ON EARTH
FOR MANY YEARS
BEFORE COMING ABOARD ENTERPRISE.
I DON'T THINK THIS IS THE SAME
PLANET YOU REMEMBER, DOCTOR.
FOR SOMEONE TO BLAME,
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING
AND THEY DON'T CARE
WHO IT IS.
I APPRECIATE YOUR CONCERN,
BUT I'LL BE FINE.
WOULD YOU?
[ SIGHS ]
[ GRUNTING ]
[ DOOR OPENS ]
[ BIRDS CHIRPING ]
[ TWIG SNAPS ]
WHAT YOU'RE DOING HERE?
MIND IF I ASK
YOU KNOW BETTER THAN TO GO
CLIMBING WITHOUT A PARTNER.
ON THE WAY DOWN, MOUNT TAR'ANA?
HOW ABOUT THAT VOLCANO WE SAW
TAR'HANA.
IS IT STILL ACTIVE?
-THERE ARE FREQUENT ERUPTIONS.
-OH.
WE CAN SCHEDULE A TOUR OF THE
CRATER, IF YOU'RE INTERESTED.
WOW.
VOLCANOES, ANCIENT RUINS,
FIRE PLAINS --
I'M NOT SURE WHERE TO START.
SO THIS IS WHERE YOU GREW UP.
[ WATER TRICKLING ]
IT'S NOT LIKE I IMAGINED.
MEANING?
WELL, IT -- IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
VULCANS APPRECIATE BEAUTY.
I HAD NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT.
WELL,
A SNAZZY DRESSER.
YOU ALWAYS WERE
COMMANDER TUCKER, I SUGGEST...
YOU WERE BRINGING A GUEST.
YOU DIDN'T TELL ME
MOTHER, YOU'RE HOME.
OBVIOUSLY.
IT'S AGREEABLE TO SEE YOU.
YOU APPEAR WELL.
I'M CHARLES TUCKER.
PLEASED TO MEET YOU, MA'AM.
[ SIGHS ]
YOU BOTH MUST BE VERY TIRED
AFTER YOUR JOURNEY.
ON THE SOUTH END OF THE HOUSE.
THE GUEST ROOM IS
IT'S NOT YET MIDDAY.
AT THE SCIENCE ACADEMY?
WHY AREN'T YOU
AN INSTRUCTOR THERE.
I'M NO LONGER
I WROTE YOU A LETTER.
TRANSMIT IT TO YOUR SHIP?
DIDN'T STARFLEET
DIFFICULTIES IN THE EXPANSE.
WE HAD COMMUNICATION
WHY YOU'RE SURPRISED.
I DON'T KNOW
THIS WAS PLANNED YEARS AGO.
THAN ONE'S PROFESSION.
THERE'S MORE TO LIFE
PERHAPS YOU'LL LEARN THAT
ONE DAY.
IT SEEMS THAT I'M NOT THE ONLY
ONE WHO KNEW YOU WERE COMING.
YOU RECEIVED THIS YESTERDAY.
IT'S FROM KOSS.
HE HAD FORGOTTEN YOU?
DID YOU BELIEVE
YOU'RE GOING TO RESPOND.
I HAVE NOTHING TO SAY TO KOSS.
HE'S YOUR FIANCé.
FORMER FIANCé.
THAT IS A MATTER FOR DEBATE.
FOR YOU TO SPEAK WITH HIM.
IT WOULD BE WISE
[ INSECTS CHIRPING ]
DON'T WANT TO HEAR THIS,
YOU PROBABLY
FROM MY BROTHER YESTERDAY.
BUT I GOT A CALL
MY OLD HIGH SCHOOL AFTER YOU.
THEY RENAMED
HOW MANY IS THAT --
TWO, THREE DOZEN?
I'M NOT COUNTING.
THAT'S JUST NORTH AMERICA.
I DON'T THINK ZEFRAM COCHRANE
HAS THAT MANY SCHOOLS
NAMED AFTER HIM.
[ BIRDS CHIRPING ]
SO, DID YOU GET A CHANCE
TO LOOK 'EM OVER?
LOOK WHAT OVER?
MY SENIOR OFFICER CANDIDATES.
ANY SUGGESTIONS FOR TACTICAL?
YOU MAY WANT TO FIND SOMEONE
WITH MORE FIELD EXPERIENCE,
A MACO.
I'M NOT SURE HOW I FEEL ABOUT A
MILITARY OFFICER ON THE BRIDGE.
I'D TALK TO GENERAL CASEY
IF I WERE YOU,
AN ENTIRE SQUAD.
ABOUT ASSIGNING
THINGS HAVE CHANGED SINCE
ENTERPRISE LEFT SPACEDOCK.
YOU'LL SPEND A LOT OF YOUR TIME
BOLDLY GOING INTO BATTLE.
YOU'RE BEING A LITTLE CYNICAL?
DON'T YOU THINK
DID YOU READ MY REPORTS?
YES, CAPTAIN, I DID.
HEY.
[ BEEPING ]
MOUNTAIN LION.
TRACKS ARE A FEW DAYS OLD.
OOH.
GOOD THING I HAVE YOU
TO PROTECT ME.
[ KNOCKING ON DOOR ]
COME IN.
GOOD MORNING.
WHAT TIME IS IT?
0400.
YOU'RE KIDDING.
WE HAVE TO PREPARE
THE MORNING MEAL.
IT'S EXPECTED OF US.
AS GUESTS,
OH.
HAVE BLOOMED EARLY THIS YEAR.
THE NAH'RU VINES
I'VE HAD AMPLE TIME
TO ATTEND TO THEM.
NOT ENJOYING RETIREMENT.
IT SOUNDS AS IF YOU'RE
THE REASON FOR YOUR VISIT.
YOU STILL HAVEN'T TOLD ME
ONE WAS NECESSARY.
I DIDN'T KNOW
I THOUGHT PERHAPS YOU'D DECIDED
TO REJOIN THE HIGH COMMAND.
I'VE BEEN OFFERED A COMMISSION
WITH STARFLEET.
IT COULD BE SEVERAL YEARS
IF I ACCEPT,
BEFORE I'M ABLE
TO RETURN HOME.
THE GESPAR ISN'T FRESH.
NEEDS TO BE REPLACED.
MY STASIS UNIT
HMM. WELL, I'D BE HAPPY
TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
IF I CAN RECALIBRATE
A WARP REACTOR,
TO HANDLE A KITCHEN APPLIANCE.
I OUGHT TO BE ABLE
FASCINATED BY ALIEN WORLDS.
MY DAUGHTER'S ALWAYS BEEN
SHE WAS ALL TOO EAGER TO FINISH
HER SCHOOLING AND LEAVE VULCAN.
YOU ENCOURAGED ME TO LEAVE.
AS I RECALL,
A MOTHER IS EXPECTED TO PUSH
HER YOUNG OUT OF THE NEST.
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO RETURN.
AT SOME POINT,
I'M TOLD THAT, ON EARTH,
THEIR OWN PATH IN LIFE.
A HUMAN CHILD CHOOSES
THEY PUT THEIR OWN WISHES
AHEAD OF THEIR FAMILY'S.
THAT'S TRUE FOR THE MOST PART.
YOU'VE LEARNED MUCH FROM THEM,
HAVEN'T YOU?
IS NO LESS IMPORTANT
A STARFLEET POSTING
THAN ONE WITH THE HIGH COMMAND.
WOULD'VE APPROVED.
I'M SURE FATHER
YOUR FATHER BELIEVED
THAT OUR WORK
SHOULD ENRICH VULCAN SOCIETY.
SUPPOSED TO BE OUR ALLY.
EARTH IS
WHAT'S HAPPENED TO YOU?
IN FRONT OF A GUEST.
WE SHOULDN'T ARGUE
WELL, THANK YOU.
THAT IS VERY KIND OF YOU
TO SAY.
UNFORTUNATELY, WE CAN'T ACTUALLY
GIVE TOURS OF THE SHIP.
IF THAT POLICY EVER CHANGES,
THE FIRST TO KNOW.
YOU TWO WILL BE
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
YOU HAD TO WEAR THAT JACKET.
DO YOU THINK I WORE THIS JACKET
TO ATTRACT ATTENTION?
HOW'S YOUR DRINK?
UM, DELICIOUS, THANK YOU.
YOUR PEOPLE DIDN'T LIKE ALCOHOL.
BECAUSE I HEARD SOMEPLACE
[ LAUGHS ] YOU MAY BE
THINKING OF VULCANS.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE RIGHT.
MIXED UP ALL THE TIME.
I GET YOUR SPECIES
WE CAN HELP YOU WITH?
IS THERE SOMETHING
YOUR FRIEND HERE IS COMFORTABLE.
I'M JUST TRYING TO MAKE SURE
SITTING IN A BAR FULL
OF SO MANY STRANGE-LOOKING
"ALIENS" LIKE US.
I'M QUITE COMFORTABLE.
BECAUSE IF YOU WEREN'T,
IF HUMANS MAKE YOU NERVOUS
FOR SOME REASON,
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BRIDGE.
THE VULCAN CONSULATE'S
BET THERE'S SOMEPLACE THERE
WHERE SOMEONE LIKE YOURSELF
REFRESHING BEVERAGE.
COULD GET A NICE,
WELL, PERHAPS WE SHOULD,
UH, BE ON OUR WAY?
WE'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE,
DOCTOR.
IF YOUR FRIEND WANTS TO GO,
YOU SHOULD LET HIM GO.
YOU'RE NOT CHASING
ANYONE OUT OF HERE.
YOU STARFLEET PEOPLE
ARE THE REAL PROBLEM
YOU FLY ALL AROUND SPACE
TELLING EVERY SPECIES YOU MEET
WHERE TO FIND EARTH.
DID IT EVER OCCUR TO YOU
THE SMARTEST THING TO DO?
THAT MIGHT NOT BE
SIR...
JUST GO BACK TO THE BAR?
WHY DON'T YOU
I DON'T TAKE ORDERS FROM YOU.
EXCUSE ME, ADMIRAL.
STEP AWAY FROM THE TABLE.
YOU HEARD HIM.
GENTLEMEN, PLEASE.
[ BOTH GRUNTING ]
[ ALL GASP ]
DOCTOR.
I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU
FOR LETTING ME STAY HERE.
EXPRESSING GRATITUDE
IS AN EARTH CUSTOM.
T'POL SAYS "THANK YOU"
ALL THE TIME.
I'VE NOTICED.
T'POL'S LUCKY.
IT'S NICE TO HAVE A PLACE
TO GO HOME TO.
I KNOW THAT YOU'RE ROMANTICALLY
INVOLVED WITH MY DAUGHTER.
THERE'S NO LOGIC
IN DENYING IT.
BEEN ATTRACTED TO HER?
HOW LONG HAVE YOU
[ SIGHS ]
SOME KIND OF CHEMISTRY
I KNEW WE HAD
WE GOT INTO AN ARGUMENT.
THE FIRST TIME
ARGUING WITH ANYONE BEFORE.
I NEVER HAD FUN
I GOT THE IMPRESSION
SAY ANYTHING TO YOU.
T'POL WASN'T GONNA
SHE DIDN'T.
I'M HER MOTHER.
YOU'VE REPAIRED IT?
JUST NEEDED A LITTLE ADJUSTMENT.
YEAH. THE FIELD GENERATOR
AS GOOD AS NEW.
IF YOU HAVE THE TIME,
PERHAPS YOU COULD REPAIR
MY FOOD SYNTHESIZER?
[ KNOCK ON DOOR ]
WOULD YOU MIND?
KOSS?
I NEED TO SPEAK WITH T'POL.
I WANT TO HEAR ABOUT YOUR LIFE
ABOARD THE HUMAN SHIP.
MANY FASCINATING STORIES.
YOU MUST HAVE
[ WATER TRICKLING ]
WHY ARE YOU HERE?
THE ANSWER SHOULD BE OBVIOUS.
YOU'VE RECEIVED MY LETTERS.
YOU KNOW I'M NOT INTERESTED
IN MARRIAGE.
ISN'T OURS ALONE.
THE DECISION
IN THE OLD TRADITIONS.
MY PARENTS BELIEVE
CANNOT SIMPLY BE DISMISSED.
FOR THEM, A BETROTHAL
OF CHOOSING ANOTHER MATE.
YOU HAVE THE OPTION
I DON'T WANT ANOTHER MATE.
I'VE BEEN ILL RECENTLY.
YOU SHOULD BE AWARE
ILL?
IT COULD TAKE SOME TIME
FOR ME TO RECOVER,
ASSUMING IT'S EVEN POSSIBLE.
I CAN HELP.
A MAN OF INFLUENCE.
MY FATHER'S
HE KNOWS THE FINEST DOCTORS
IN THE PROVINCE.
[ BIRDS CHIRPING ]
I INTEND TO GO THROUGH
WITH THIS.
WHAT IF I DECLARED
THE KAL-IF-FEE?
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT?
A FIGHT TO THE DEATH?
PERHAPS YOUR HUMAN FRIEND WOULD
MAKE A SUITABLE CHALLENGER.
YOU FIND THIS AMUSING?
NO.
CALL A CHALLENGER
IF YOU WISH.
WHATEVER IS NECESSARY.
I'LL DO
IT'S BEST IF YOU LEAVE.
TO HELP YOUR MOTHER.
I MAY BE ABLE
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
HAVE HER REINSTATED.
MY FATHER COULD
SHE RETIRED.
SHE WAS ASKED TO RESIGN.
WHY?
I'VE SAID MORE THAN I SHOULD.
IF WE WERE TO MARRY,
YOU'D ONLY HAVE TO LIVE
ON VULCAN FOR ONE YEAR.
YOU COULD RESUME YOUR CAREER
WITH STARFLEET AFTER THAT.
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT,
AN ABSENT WIFE?
I'D WANT YOU TO BE HAPPY.
YOU SHOULD GO.
[ SIGHS ]
HOW ABOUT THAT?
WHAT?
JUST TO THE LEFT OF POLARIS.
[ CRICKETS CHIRPING ]
WE FOUND OUR FIRST M-CLASS
PLANET AROUND THAT STAR.
MAYBE HUMANS WILL GO BACK
SOMEDAY, BUILD A COLONY.
I DOUBT IT. THE AIR WAS FILLED
WITH A PSYCHOTROPIC COMPOUND.
IT FOR A FEW HOURS,
AFTER BREATHING
NEARLY KILLED EACH OTHER.
MY SENIOR OFFICERS
MAYBE THE VULCANS
WERE RIGHT.
MAYBE WE WEREN'T READY.
NOT READY?
HOW LONG WERE WE
SUPPOSED TO WAIT?
LOOK WHAT IT'S GOTTEN US.
WE ALMOST LOST EARTH.
ENTERPRISE SAVED EARTH.
IF WE WEREN'T OUT THERE
STIRRING UP TROUBLE,
MIGHT STILL BE ALIVE.
7 MILLION PEOPLE
"STIRRING UP TROUBLE."
YOU WEREN'T
YOU WERE EXPLORING.
THERE'S MUCH OF A DIFFERENCE.
I'M NOT SURE
SO WHAT DO YOU SUGGEST?
PUT OUR STARSHIPS
IN MOTHBALLS?
BUT LOOK AT THE VULCANS.
NO. WE NEED THEM.
THEY'RE NOT EXPLORERS.
THEY KEEP THEIR SHIPS
CLOSE TO HOME.
WHO'S GONNA COME CALLING.
YOU NEVER KNOW
EITHER ONE OF US SIGNED UP FOR.
THAT'S NOT THE MISSION
MAYBE YOU'LL FEEL DIFFERENTLY
AFTER YOU'VE DELIVERED
A FEW DOZEN EULOGIES.
IT'S DIFFICULT TO MEDITATE
WITH YOU STANDING THERE.
WASN'T YOUR CHOICE.
THIS RETIREMENT
THAT'S NOT ENTIRELY ACCURATE.
RATHER THAN FACE DISMISSAL.
I CHOSE TO RETIRE
I WAS UNDER INVESTIGATION
BY THE SECURITY MINISTRY.
I HAD TAKEN RESTRICTED DATA
THEY CLAIMED
FROM THE ACADEMY ARCHIVES.
DID YOU?
NO.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
THEIR ACCUSATIONS
WERE FABRICATED.
THAT IF I LEFT THE ACADEMY,
I WAS TOLD
THEY WOULD END THE INQUIRY.
THE MINISTRY DO THIS?
WHY WOULD
BECAUSE OF ME.
FOR THE INCIDENT AT P'JEM.
THEY BLAMED ME
AFTER THE MONASTERY
WAS DESTROYED,
THE FIRST MINISTER
WAS DISMISSED.
MANY ENEMIES HERE.
YOU'VE MADE
THEY COULDN'T REACH ME
ON ENTERPRISE,
SO THEY PUNISHED YOU.
IT'S CRIMINAL.
LET THEM DO THIS?
HOW COULD YOU
YOU'VE CHANGED.
YOUR EMOTIONS WERE ALWAYS
CLOSE TO THE SURFACE,
TO SUPPRESS THEM.
BUT YOU MANAGED
COMMANDER TUCKER, ISN'T IT?
IT'S BECAUSE OF THIS
HE'S THE REASON WHY YOU REFUSE
TO BOND WITH KOSS.
DO YOU REALLY BELIEVE
CAN HAVE A FUTURE TOGETHER?
THAT A HUMAN AND A VULCAN
YOUR CHILDREN WOULD ENDURE,
IMAGINE THE SHAME
ASSUMING THAT THE TWO OF YOU
COULD HAVE CHILDREN.
THAT WOULDN'T BE
YOUR CONCERN.
[ CRICKETS CHIRPING ]
[ FIRE CRACKLING ]
[ CREATURE GROWLING ]
[ FOLIAGE RUSTLING ]
[ GRUNTS ]
[ PANTING ]
YOU ALL RIGHT?
"ALL RIGHT" MEANS ANYMORE.
I'M NOT EVEN SURE WHAT
WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT?
THERE'S AN OLD CODE
AMONG CLIMBERS.
ON THE MOUNTAIN STAYS THERE.
ANYTHING THAT HAPPENS
YOU WANT TO KNOW
WHY I'M OUT HERE?
I FIGURED THIS WAS THE LAST
PLACE I'D RUN INTO ANYONE
WHO'D WANT TO SHAKE MY HAND
OR TAKE MY PICTURE
OR TELL ME I'M AN INSPIRATION
TO THEIR CHILDREN.
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
IF THEY KNEW WHAT I'D DONE...
YOU DID WHAT ANY CAPTAIN
WOULD'VE DONE.
DOES THAT INCLUDE TORTURE?
FULL OF INNOCENT PEOPLE?
OR MAROONING A SHIP
BECAUSE I DON'T REMEMBER
READING THOSE CHAPTERS
IN THE HANDBOOK.
WHERE ARE YOU GOING, JON?
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT?
YOU GOING CLIMBING
-IT'D BE A SHAME
-WHY NOT?
IF YOU LOST YOUR FOOTING.
IT'S A LONG WAY DOWN.
YOU WOULDN'T HAVE TO DEAL
BUT AT LEAST
WITH THESE FEELINGS ANYMORE.
SOME KIND OF A DEATH WISH?
ARE YOU TELLING ME I HAVE
YOU TELL ME.
ALL I'M TRYING TO DO
IS GET AWAY FROM YOU.
I LOOK AT YOU, AND I SEE THE
PERSON I WAS THREE YEARS AGO,
THE EXPLORER THAT MY FATHER
WANTED ME TO BE.
[ SIGHS ]
I LOST SOMETHING OUT THERE.
HOW TO GET IT BACK.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT WAS THAT?
SOMETHING I HAVEN'T DONE
IN A WHILE.
WHATEVER YOU'VE LOST,
MAYBE I CAN HELP YOU FIND IT.
WHEN WE GET BACK TO EARTH,
YOU KNOW, IF WE HAVE TIME
I'D LIKE TO SHOW YOU SOME
SIGHTS, RETURN THE FAVOR.
[ VOLCANO RUMBLING ]
EVERYTHING OKAY?
I NEED TO TELL YOU.
THERE'S SOMETHING
I'VE DECIDED TO MARRY KOSS.
MARRY HIM?
IF I JOIN HIS FAMILY,
HER POSITION AT THE ACADEMY.
MY MOTHER WILL REGAIN
IS A SENIOR MINISTER
HIS FATHER
WITH A GREAT DEAL
OF INFLUENCE.
ARE THEY FORCING YOU TO DO THIS?
I DON'T GET IT.
THE DECISION WAS MINE.
BECAUSE OF MY ACTIONS.
MY MOTHER RESIGNED
YOU TOLD ME THREE YEARS AGO
WHAT?
YOU DIDN'T EVEN LOVE THIS GUY.
SO YOU'RE JUST GONNA
LEAVE STARFLEET
AND MOVE BACK TO VULCAN?
I'VE BEEN NEGOTIATING
WITH KOSS'S FAMILY.
"NEGOTIATING"?
HAVE TO RESIDE TOGETHER...
THEY'VE AGREED WE WON'T
NOT RIGHT AWAY.
I'LL REMAIN ON ENTERPRISE
FOR THE TIME BEING.
THAT'S REAL GENEROUS OF THEM.
TRIP, I HAVE TO DO THIS...
FOR MANY REASONS.
SUPPOSED TO TAKE THIS?
AND HOW AM I
I'M SORRY.
-YOU'RE SORRY?
-I --
YOU BROUGHT ME 16 LIGHT-YEARS
JUST TO WATCH YOU GET MARRIED
TO SOMEONE YOU BARELY KNOW.
[ GRUNTS ]
BROUGHT A CAMERA.
WE SHOULD'VE
YOU REMEMBER THAT PLANET
I TOLD YOU ABOUT?
THERE WAS A MOUNTAIN RANGE
ON THE SOUTHERN CONTINENT.
THE VIEW WAS ALMOST
AS AMAZING AS THIS.
THAT'S A GOOD DAY'S CLIMB
WE'VE GOT AHEAD OF US.
WE CAN REACH THE SUMMIT
BY NIGHTFALL,
BUT WE SHOULD GET MOVING.
I THINK THE VIEW'S FINE
FROM HERE.
I'M GLAD YOU TAGGED ALONG.
THERE'S STILL SOMETHING
YOU KNOW,
I'M NOT QUITE CLEAR ABOUT.
WHAT'S THAT?
SEEING EACH OTHER?
WHY DID WE STOP
YOUR SUPERIOR OFFICER.
WELL, I WAS
IT WASN'T APPROPRIATE.
YOU'RE NOT MY SUPERIOR
ANYMORE.
I WONDER IF STARFLEET
WOULD APPROVE?
THE ONLY TWO WARP-5 SHIPS.
THE CAPTAINS OF
WELL, YOU'RE FORGETTING
THE CLIMBERS' CODE.
SO, WHAT'S THE VERDICT?
AM I GONNA LIVE?
IS ALMOST NEGLIGIBLE.
YOUR PARASITE COUNT
OF THE REST OF THEM.
THIS SHOULD DISPOSE
GONNA MAKE IT TONIGHT.
I HOPE YOU'RE
HMM?
MADAME CHANG'S.
THAT YOU FORGOT.
DON'T TELL ME
OH, UM...MY OSMOTIC EEL
IS UNDER THE WEATHER.
UNTIL SHE'S FEELING BETTER.
I SHOULD STAY ABOARD
YOU'VE BEEN TALKING
WAIT. NO,
ABOUT THE EGG-DROP SOUP
AT THIS PLACE
FOR AS LONG AS
I'VE KNOWN YOU.
ENSIGN MAYWEATHER WILL ENJOY IT.
I'M SURE YOU AND
I SPOKE WITH TRAVIS.
WHAT HAPPENED TO YOU
THE OTHER NIGHT?
OH, YOU MUST MEAN THE, UH...
[ CHUCKLES ]
NOTHING MORE THAN AN INSTINCTIVE
DEFENSIVE RESPONSE.
SO YOU'RE GONNA STAY
ABOARD THE SHIP
BECAUSE OF SOME LOUDMOUTH
IN A BAR?
MY PRESENCE COULD PROVOKE
ANOTHER INCIDENT.
SOMEONE COULD GET HURT.
TO DEAL WITH PREJUDICE.
THIS ISN'T THE WAY
IS TO SHOW YOUR FACE
THE BEST THING
THAT THERE ARE ALIENS
AND REMIND PEOPLE
BLOW UP THE PLANET.
WHO DON'T WANT TO
FOR THE WAY THEY REACTED.
I CAN'T BLAME THOSE MEN
EARTH HAS SURVIVED
A HORRIFIC ATTACK.
FOR THE TRAUMA TO HEAL.
IT WILL TAKE TIME
BESIDES, I HAVE FRIENDS --
HMM? -- TO KEEP ME COMPANY.
TOO MUCH TROUBLE...
NOW, IF IT'S NOT
I'LL BRING YOU SOME TAKEOUT.
THE DETAILS OF THIS DEBRIEFING
WILL REMAIN CLASSIFIED,
BY THE COMMAND COUNCIL.
AS ORDERED
NO FURTHER QUESTIONS...
IF THERE ARE
AMBASSADOR.
I WANT TO APOLOGIZE FOR WHAT
I SAID TO YOU THE OTHER DAY.
I WAS OUT OF LINE.
YES, YOU WERE.
FINALLY AGREE ON SOMETHING.
I'M GLAD WE CAN
CAPTAIN.
YOUR ACTIONS, WHILE BEING
MORALLY QUESTIONABLE,
WERE NECESSARY.
I OPPOSED YOUR APPOINTMENT
AS CAPTAIN OF ENTERPRISE,
BUT IT'S OBVIOUS NOW
THAT I WAS WRONG.
T'POL HAS TOLD ME
THAT THE EXPANSE WOULD HAVE
SOMEDAY ENCOMPASSED
HUNDREDS OF SYSTEMS,
INCLUDING VULCAN.
YOU'VE DONE A GREAT SERVICE
FOR BOTH OUR WORLDS.
THANK YOU.
[ KNOCKING ON DOOR ]
COME IN.
KOSS AND HIS FAMILY
ARE WAITING.
AS SOON AS I CAN.
I'LL BE THERE
[ SIGHS ]
KNOW ANY GOOD TAILORS?
BELONGED TO MY HUSBAND.
THESE CLOTHES
THEY FIT YOU WELL.
AREN'T YOU BOTHERED
BY THE FACT
THAT T'POL DOESN'T EVEN
CARE FOR THIS GUY?
HER FAMILY OBLIGATION.
SHE'S FULFILLING
I MET MY HUSBAND ONLY ONCE
BEFORE WE WERE JOINED.
IN TIME, WE DEVELOPED A DEEP
CONNECTION TO EACH OTHER.
YEAH.
WELL, MAYBE SHE'D RATHER
WITH SOMEONE ELSE.
MAKE A CONNECTION
HAVE YOU INFORMED T'POL?
INFORMED HER OF WHAT?
YOU'RE IN LOVE WITH HER.
EXPRESS THEIR EMOTIONS,
VULCANS MAY NOT
BUT WE ARE SENSITIVE TO THEM.
I DON'T THINK I KNEW IT
UNTIL WE WERE STANDING
OVER THAT LAVA FIELD
SHE WAS GONNA MARRY KOSS.
AND SHE TOLD ME
THAT'S WHEN IT HIT ME.
I WAS GONNA LOSE HER.
I WANTED TO TELL HER
RIGHT THERE, BUT...
[ CHUCKLES ]
...I COULDN'T.
THERE'S STILL TIME.
I THOUGHT YOU DIDN'T APPROVE.
YOUR RELATIONSHIP,
I MAY NOT CONDONE
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT FOR HER
TO HAVE ALL THE FACTS.
WELL, IF I SAY ANYTHING,
CALL OFF THE WEDDING...
T'POL MIGHT
OR WORSE, NOT CALL IT OFF.
[ SIGHS ]
SHE'S GOT ENOUGH PRESSURE
ON HER AS IT IS.
I DON'T WANT TO MAKE THINGS
ANY MORE COMPLICATED.
YOU LOOK AMAZING.
THAT YOU'RE HERE.
I'M GRATEFUL
WOULDN'T MISS IT
FOR THE WORLD.
[ GONGING ]
IT'S TIME.
WHAT YE ARE ABOUT TO WITNESS
THE TIME OF THE BEGINNING
COMES DOWN FROM
WITHOUT CHANGE.
THIS IS THE VULCAN HEART.
THIS IS THE VULCAN SOUL.
THIS IS OUR WAY.